##Introduction

The goal is to design and build a multi-function CNC profiling system with a cutting area of 2.44m x 1.22m x 0.15m.  The intent is to design the entire system with a minimum cost, while providing a positional accuracy of +/- 0.05 mm (.002”), and high machining speeds of up to 15 m per minute. The basis of the design will be patterned after numerous CNC Router designs (namely but not limited to, Data-Cut CNC, ShopBot Alpha, JoesCNC Evolution & MechMate). The design should incorporate interchangeable profiling heads & beds to support the profiling of both metal (using a Plasma head with Torch Height Control (THC)) and wood/non-ferrous metal/ aluminium and plastics utilizing a 2.2 -3.0KW single phase motor.

The system must cater for the occasional break-down and reassembly for relocation purposes.

##Description
A CNC machine is a system that is able to accept numerical control inputs to machine a part specified by the exact positioning of the inputs. The machine is able to accept commands through a directly connected personal computer. The personal computer communicates to the main controller subsystem through (one of the following) Ethernet, USB, or parallel link. The main controller subsystem is able to interpret and directly control movement of the attachable tool head/s. The framework of the system is set up by the mechanical subsystem which will allow for movement in the x, y, and z axes and specify spatial limitations of any acceptable job. The main controller, and mechanical subsystems are able to interact through power provided by the motor driver subsystem. The overall block diagram of the machine is pictured below.
